# SLIC 

## What is it?
It is a Python based tool that aids in converting foreground life cycle inventories (LCI) in Brightway in compliance with the  life cycle inventory schema (LCIS). The detailed structure and background of LCIS is published elsewhere. (Link will be updated soon). SLIC is an anagram of LCIS. Please refer to this schema to understand the abbreviations and terms used below.

## What is LCIS?

LCIS (version 2024) is a schema proposed for the sharing of life cycle inventories based on existing standards and conventions to promote open-data. SLIC is a python tool developed for the conversion of life cycle inventories in compliance with this schema. This schema will soon be published open-access in a scientific journal. And a link will be provided here.

## Installation & Usage

1. Download the latest version from the releases page.
2. Extract and open the folder in your favourite IDE.
2. Clone the ennvironment file environment.yml using conda, and select it as the python kernel.

### Usage

The tool mainly consists of two modules - inventory and imports.

The main purpose of /Inventory deals with the export of brightway foreground datasets according to LCIS.
1. Open  and run the cells within the jupyter notebook /Inventory/export_lci.ipynb to generate the dataset files (csv, xlsx), dataset properties (csv) for your LCI. Follow the instructions within the notebook.
2. Open and run the /network/LCI_network.ipynb according to the instructions in the notebook to generate the network file (graphml).
3. The metadata excel template is available at /export/templates.

*Note^1^* : files generated by jupyternotebooks are stored within their root directory
*Note^2^* : in all jupyternotebooks, there are some interactive elements such as selection windows (i.e, a window will pop to select a file). If you do not see them appear, usually they are present behind other open windows in your operating system. No idea, why this window does not immediately become active. This will be debugged later.


The main purpose of /Imports is to import excel datasets into Brightway. It then applies some linking methods to link any missing exchanges and flows. This is built on top of the brightway import functions. If your datasets cannot be imported using these functions, you can give this jupyter notebook a try. There are not much strict rules for an excel template. A discussion on this can be found [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73623195/brightway2-what-is-the-model-pattern-for-an-xlsx-database). However, for ease of use, a conventional brightway excel template is always recommended. An example can be found [here](https://ars.els-cdn.com/content/image/1-s2.0-S0921344922004451-mmc2.xlsx). A similar demo template is also provided in /Imports/templates

1. Open and run the cells in the jupyter notebook /Imports/import_excel_inventory.ipynb. 
2. Follow the instructions within the notebook.



## Compatibility

At present, the tool has been tested for compatibility with the following versions of Brightway and Python. Due to the rapidly evovling nature of Brightway, these versions have to be kept in mind prior to the utlization of this tool.
- Brightway 2.4.2, 2.4.3
  - bw2calc 1.8.1, 1.8.2
  - bw2data 3.6.5, 3.6.6
  - bw2io 0.8.8
  - bw2analyzer 0.10
  - bw_migrations 0.1, 0.2
- Python: 3.9, 3.10
- OS: Win 10 and 11. 

It has to be further highlighted that tool was primarily tested in VSCode, and Spyder using the environment cloned from environment.yml. A conventional browser-based jupyternotebook should also work.